# 1. Who needs the "Mirror for the city" and why?

> "To look at the mirror, at least occasionally, is important not only for people, but for cities as well. To know how a city is seen with the eyes of, say, adolescents, should be interesting and important for the city.
>
> In turn, it is essential for children to acquire ability to see regular things in an unusual way, to find something unusual, mysterious, amazing in what seems simple and everyday. Reflexive journalism is one of the possible ways to perform this.
>
> We offered the teenagers, students of 9-11 forms of different schools, as well as interested students an adventure: to try in just one working day (in fact, in 360 minutes (!)) to make a newspaper reflecting their views and thoughts, their understanding of the city. The beginners were offered to work with not the city as a whole, but with only some places in one district.
>
> During the game, the participants acted as correspondents and photographers, analysts and editors, they tried to overcome their own shyness, interviewing strangers in unusual places, shown creative courage in creating journalistic texts, as it says, "straight from the wheels."
>
> The opportunity to see how your impressions and thoughts are transformed into a published text for a short game time is breathtaking. But this also allows feeling responsibility for what has been said and especially for written word.
>
> Whether the participants manage to approach unfamiliar places and people in such a short time in order to find something important and interesting in them and to write about it in the way that this would capture others, is to be decided by readers of the newspaper where the texts of the game participants will be published.
>
> At the same time, initially no one can guarantee the result, the game is a game. Adults certainly help, but the result depend on participants themselves. This is specifically what makes the participant curious and fascinated about the game. Uncertainty and risk are the native elements of adolescents"

This or similar text opened the newspaper, the materials of which were prepared by high school students during the first educational game "Journalist" in 2005, which took place in St. Petersburg within the frameworks of the "Mirror for the City" project.

Since then over a hundred games had been conducted, attended by not less than 5000 high school students from St. Petersburg, Tyumen, Volgograd and Stavropol regions, Karelia and fifty other regions of Russia, as well as from Riga, Tallinn, Helsinki.

The present brochure focuses on the organizational aspects of the project and its essential characteristics which allow us to reflect upon the possibilities of using the method in the educational environment and for development of regions.
