# 2. What should be the contemporary education for adolescents?

> **"Education is possible at every point of space. It is important, though, that an adult would arrive to the point 5 minutes before an adolescent and arrange everything”**  \
> ****
>
> Vladimir Lantsberg, Russian teacher

It is hardly possible to establish clear age and time limits, an exact day of the year after which a boy or girl becomes a teenager. Nevertheless, this metamorphosis occurs with every child. And if the children change, moving from age to age, it is logical to assume that education, designed to help them grow up and master the world around them, must also somehow change. But how?

## Experiment, design, research

To explore the world and oneself in it together with one's peers is the main task of this age. In this regard, when organizing the educational process, the emphasis should be made on the possibility of choosing activities, mastering different methods of individual and team work, conducting all sorts of experiments and performing tasks that are really valuable.

What is needed at this age, is the gradual transition to activities that combine several subject areas in one educational project. From the “class” form of study, where a whole class passes the same curriculum, it is reasonable to transfer to more individualized study routes. But this also means an essential change in the educational material. Not only the board, chalk and textbook become necessary for the normal organization of education, but also the surrounding environment, like the whole city with its museums and factories, libraries and shops, nature and townspeople.

The role of the teacher in this kind of educational process changes as well; he ceases to be the main source of information for children. He becomes the organizer of their joint work, a consultant, a specialist and a professional in the field of information retrieval and processing. The teacher's task is to organize activities of children and adults helping them so that the children get able to see something amazing in regular things. It is this miracle of discovery that is able to become a starting point, a "point of surprise", where the process of real education begins. This is the kind of education where a student recognizes its meaning, the meaning of what is happening in the process of education.

## Their own community \[active life "with your own hands"]

Another characteristic feature of adolescents is their desire to live in their community. This should be a community where an adolescent is well accepted, and which is regulated by special rules of life, the rules that the adolescents wish to obey and create together.

The books of Vladislav Krapivin, Arkady Gaidar, Robert Baden-Powell, Ernest Seton-Thompson et al. are exactly about that, the teenagers' never-ending desire to be well accepted in their company.

Children's detachments and republics, described in the books of Makarenko, Korchak, Soroka-Rosinsky and Kassil, are the variants of the organized (as well as not as much organized) embodiment of this need of children. All these units are also the first schools of democracy.

It is very important for children to try to organize their own lives with their own hands and create situations where they are interested about what is happening (or at least participate in this as equals with adults). However for being able to learn to do something on their own and understand that their voice is important in the adult world, teenagers need help. The help, among other things, might relate to arrangement of the necessary environment, which teenagers are not able to do alone.

## Romanticism, adventure, risk

In adolescence, the romanticism of travel, adventure, and risk is particularly significant. Children read books about strange events; long trips and dangerous adventures; knights, pirates and bandits; courageous peers, performing feats and shaming evil and meanness; all kinds of children's secret societies and teen companies that lead a life hidden from outsiders.

Tom Sawyer, Haeckelbury Finn, Pippi Longstocking, fifteen-year-old captain, Timur and his team, Captain Sorvey-head, and now Harry Potter are the heroes of the boys of this age. They would like to have the same restless lives for themselves.

The dimension of everyday life is boring, nasty, and in some ways in actual fact contraindicated, since it is non-standard situations that bring up will, sense of responsibility for a companion, kindness, forgiveness, willingness to stand up for oneself and keep the word. It seems that without these tests those qualities are not tempered. And the guys, following the requirements of nature, begin to look for adventures "on their own", as adults often say. Often, such attempts to experience the world lead to sad consequences.

In turn, parents face a dilemma. They can not forbid, as teenagers will still find a loophole, and it will only get worse. It is also impossible to resolve, as there are many real dangers.

The solution is to help children in search of adventure in a cultural way: go camping with them, go on long trips and gatherings, make "little madnesses" together.

## Their own real business

No less than adventure, teens crave independence! They really want to stop being small and play toys. It is important for them to feel that they can participate in real and respected (!) business on an equal basis with adults (!).

The guys have the desire and certain skills, but the whole system of today's education does not allow them to do any real business. You can not work, as you have to study and go to school. If you try to work after school, then not every company is ready to hire a teenager, the labor safety standards are quite tough. Of course, not every schoolchild will survive a full-time working day during the whole working week. But teenagers do want to try themselves in real work, to feel important and useful!

The situation comes to the contradiction, when teenagers want and partly can work, but the system does not allow them. Many adults, perhaps, would have risked offering adolescents a deal, but are afraid that this will affect the company's efficiency. Moreover, it is not clear how to combine this work with schooling and legislative norms.

It should be noted that in the recent years, practice-oriented education has attracted increasing attention. Someone arranges internships for schoolchildren, someone launches interactive educational programs with entrepreneurs and scientists, someone leaves with the children for educational trips and expeditions, someone offers high school students to study literature and history right in the city museums.

In fact, the educational game "Journalist” is a case of that kind of educational initiatives. The game provides risk and pleasure from the opportunity to see a real product, that is, a real newspaper that comprises a part of a teenager's own personal labor, and a sense of responsibility for the overall work. Training presents here as well, but between the lines, in the processes of discussing what has been observed around and preparing the texts.

The main goal of the game is to solve the problem of estrangement of modern adolescents from development of the historical, cultural, economic and natural heritage of their region (city, region, village) with the help of fascinating and practical-oriented research methods.

Unfortunately, the mechanisms of active inclusion of adolescents in the discussion of the problems and achievements of the region are few. Even fewer options take into account the views of adolescents in making decisions relating to them directly. The both activities require to be learned. It is important to find a way to give students a conscious attitude to reality, attracting them to a demanded work.

The "Journalist" project began with reflections on how to help adolescents get experience of thoughtful journalism, as far as the mass entertainment of "TV chewing gum" they will surely be fed with in any case.
