# 3. What is reflexive journalism?

> **...We opened the secret veil of explicit things...**
>
> From feedbacks of the participants of the game

Many of us have got enough of being surrounded by all things false and empty. People are tired of pretending to be significant just out of browsing life, carrying some empty but colorful backpacks full of nothing but urban air that became a source of news for the journalists, so that this news is far too obvious and familiar for us. The time of postmodernity is full of simulacra obtained a far too high status of something significant, of empty things that are just objects for chatter. Culture either clings to tradition, centuries-old spiritual values, or manifests streams of experiences of artistically gifted persons through techniques of modern art. Personality, unfortunately, is getting increasingly visible only in the scandalous, rating-related or reference-information frameworks.

Of course, journalism still tries to find out some true events of life, trace aesthetics of everyday life, reveal the paradoxical combinations of the ways of lives of historical and modern characters, see the extreme circumstances where the character who is spiritually devastated throws himself to, hoping to fill in some way his soul that has dried up without the original spring of humanity. However, all this remains a superficial "Ah!" only. Much of this carries some sort of light occasional surprise that gets forgotten after a few next lines or frames, and thus don't bring the reader or viewer to the authenticity of authentic human condition for even a little bit. At the present time journalism at best shows us the glare of the natural (often the lower kinds of natural than high ones), but does not look to the essence of the natural, passing to everyday empty banalities or even real dramas and tragedies given out for empty banalities. But what do we need instead?

The journalism should look for pure streams of spiritual human potential in everyday life, decipher the sequence of everyday event marks to discover the existential foundations behind them, carefully consider the social for the sake of finding the natural, coevolutionary behind that. That's just about what journalism needs to be intelligent rather than pretending to be so.

Well, isn't journalism supposed to entertain its audience and distract from the rhythm of our too mundane life “between home and work”? Maybe it is supposed to, but this should be done in a different way, as a journey into something unknown that determines the behavior of people, as an organization of adventures of own thoughts and feelings of reader or viewer.

Moreover, these adventures should be aimed not at entertaining or distracting, but at attracting the readers or viewers to the essence of the events shown, to core responsibility of each person to himself. This is such an attraction that should become an entertainment, an adventure, but still be full of existential meaning, instead of being an empty one.

Don't we need journalism to explain the politics and economy of today? Of course, we do need the explanations, but the first thing the explanations should give is the opportunity to understand the schemes and patterns of behavior of the actors of the field, the subjects and objects of politics.

Reflexive journalism, in order to be such, can probably borrow something from the methods of describing and exploring everyday and cultural-political life from understanding ethnography and sociology, historical psychology and anthropology, the Gestalt approach, and even philosophical hermeneutics. The forms of presentation of the results of those different methods of analysis, of course, should be closer to art than to science, and, perhaps, would carry some philosophic and psychologic tones in the manner that is vivid and intelligible to a wide range of readers or viewers. It will be useful to recall rhetoric and poetics, ethics and aesthetics, analytics and "synectics" (the term of William Gordon), and then transform them into the practice of journalistic narrative about things that are mysteriously mundane and defiantly vital. Good wishes only? Not only…

All those skills can and should be started to be mastered already at school, since it is at this age critical thinking firstly declares itself in an open way and desire for reflexive self-knowledge manifests itself. When left without proper pedagogical support, these tendencies of adolescents' minds often turn into a kind of surrogate, carrying teenage cynicism and maximalism, selfishness and school aggression. If, however, this "freak" and risky behaviour of adolescents is, according to the principle of aikido, organized to be channeled into the teen journalism of the "life-world" (in terms of the Edmund Husserl philosophy) in the Indiana Jones style, combining the models of the Sherlock Holmes and Captain Colombo detective thinking, then, perhaps, we will get an interesting workshop combining the methods of research (investigation) that have been proposed by scientists and are being invented by teachers and students themselves. This will be a workshop of smart journalism.

Finally, we approach the reasonable question: who is interested? Who is interested in reflexive journalism? Our experience has shown that such people do exist. The demand for the "Journalist" game is confirmed by the evidence that more and more young men and women play it, as well as teachers, librarians and actors of youth public organizations in various regions of the world. Maybe this happens due to the game being projected to open an "amazing secrets" of what is close to its participants every day, as well as to immerse them to the practice of understanding?
