# 4. What principles is the "Journalist" game built on?

> **«Oh, the whole experience that I acquired on this game is priceless!»**
>
> From the feedback of participants

Perhaps the main principle in the educational game "Journalist" is the principle of "here and now." It is directly related to the phenomenological approach developed by Edmund Husserl and his followers to describe the structures of consciousness and the processes of the "vital world". Within the framework of this approach, the "flow of consciousness" of a person is viewed as such, in its pure form, abstractly from the perception of the world, loaded with psychological features and cultural traditions.

Since the "stream of consciousness" is always "about something", it is objective, then under the phenomenological approach it is addressed "to things", for example, to "places" and "situations" of everyday social life - as they are in some naive, unbiased stereotypes and ideology of perception (the so-called perception "here and now"). This perception of the world becomes useful and heuristic in social analytics in general and in thoughtful journalism in particular. A personal, but at the same time, basically non-price view of things and events as they are in themselves is acquired. Therefore, young journalists who are not yet loaded with professional problems and patterns, adult culture, inherent in this spontaneous and paradoxical subcultural view, leaving out of focus the social "gloss".

Of course, the phenomenological approach in the "Journalist" game is not strictly implemented: the socio-cultural context, one way or another, interferes with the situation "here and now" of the perception of places of visiting by young journalists. It is also influenced by the theme of the game set by the organizers. However, the thematic perspectives of the study of these places are also offered to participants on the basis of the phenomenological approach, but mainly with the use of the principle of partial, incomplete, thematic reduction. More about the content of the topics will be told in section 9. In the meantime, let us turn to the organizational and pedagogical and professional (vocational guidance-gaming) principles on which the basic logic and algorithm of the game are built.

_**The principle of attraction**_ (from the English attraction - attraction, gravitation, attractiveness). The appeal for teenagers of the "Journalist" game, apparently, lies in foreseeing them the opportunity to reveal some secrets of an adult society, to touch the unattainable profession hidden behind corporate and institutional barriers. In particular, and the profession of a journalist, which is perhaps one of the most public, and sometimes very influential in the modern world (the "fourth power"). In general, this principle corresponds with the desire of a teenager to become an adult, to feel independence from parental and teacher care and edification, with a desire to have fun, some entertainment (distraction from dull studies) in a practical and socially significant for many business.

_**The principle of adventure.**_ According to this principle, unexpected situations are created for the fulfillment of journalistic tasks, the conditions for visiting sometimes unfamiliar places, making decisions and research "here and now." This is the easy social risk, the extreme collection and processing of journalistic material right on the spot, which is so inherent in the psycho-physiological nature of adolescents. This is the case when high-school students create safe conditions for adventure, useful for life and cognitive experience.

_**The principle of the meeting.**_ Participants get an opportunity to try themselves in a really popular business together with peers and adult professionals. Meeting on the game is not only productive communication in various groups, but also self-perception, self-knowledge, meeting with one's own possibilities. There is a unique chance to open new semantic figures in the familiar social background, to meet with the material and living "individualities" of the world, usually not seen in the context of everyday context, and to communicate with them.

_**Principle of a mirror.**_ Such game activity is built up, thanks to which the participants, with their improvised and own journalistic means, reflect what they saw and heard on the ground in order to pass it through publications to readers (for example, residents of regions and workers of enterprises). And the participants themselves see the reflection of their personal and collective creativity.

_**The principle of the matter.**_ The game is a serious matter. Participants have the opportunity to create real journalistic materials that will be read in the family, at school, at the enterprise. At the same time, they train communicative and publishing skills, expanding their life and educational horizons.

_**The principle of the game.**_ "Journalist" is still a game. As in any game, there are rules that everyone must observe. Otherwise, nothing happens. There will not be a game, and no one will have fun, which is also very important.

In addition, there is always a high risk: no one hundred percent guarantees the result or product. There will be only what we, the participants, will do together. Each time the outcome will be special: it all depends on what people are playing today, how the teams got together and what adults met.

**The principle of the transformer.** With the preservation of the common algorithmic core, the game design allows functional and meaningful variations at each stage and for any chosen theme. This principle is valid only if all of the above. The form while maintaining the essence of the game can change only within limited limits. Otherwise, it is not an educational game "Journalist", but something else.

_**The principle of facilitation (unobtrusive support).**_ This principle concerns the psychological and pedagogical position of adults at the game (organizers, facilitators, consultants, coordinators, guests). First of all, we mean a respectful and businesslike attitude towards the participants as equally responsible for the result, together with professionals performing socially significant work. Adults create the optimal environment, refraining from manuals and sharp assessments, in difficult situations, use tactical hints-clues, while retaining a fairly broad scope of the participants in accordance with the intent and logic of the game.

For example, such are the basic principles of work in the corps, places of gathering of journalistic information:

* from a minimum of information to get a maximum;
* special attention not only to large but also to the smallest details of the place;
* try to feel the place not only with the group but also alone;
* try to write a few lines right on the spot;
* be bolder in expressing thoughts and feelings on paper after perceiving the characteristics of the place;
* do not leave the office without informing an adult consultant;
* use the game time with the maximum benefit to develop yourself as a journalist.

Since the participants have different experience of journalistic practice, then, of course, they show their activity on the corporation in different ways. Some boldly go on contact with strangers, others timidly keep aloof. Someone prefers to explore the place alone, and someone immediately finds partners for work. In the support of activity, it is important to play both the role of the selected editor and the accompanying person. If the first (as a rule, the more experienced of the guys) can supervise the organization of work, keep track so that important aspects of the site research are not lost, then the accompanying (usually an adult teacher or a volunteer student) creates unobtrusive conditions for young journalists to develop creative inspiration.

So, we have listed the main meaningful meanings, which define the various organizational-game forms. Success in many ways depends on the logic of applying these principles in a specific situation.
