# 26. How to organize a remote game with the simultaneous participation of teams in different cities?

In December 2010 the network project "School League RUSNANO" was launched in Russia. Its goal was to assist schools in developing ideas aimed at improving up-to-date natural science education, actively involving young people in innovative processes, understanding what is happening in the field of nano industry, studying the technologies and markets, as well as providing early career guidance.

The rise of the league became the new stage of development of the "Journalist" game. So, we started the all-Russian distant games, which brought an alternative way of organizing, attracting participants and holding the game. The first remote game was called "Journalist: science and technology in the region." It was attended by 29 school teams from schools in 10 regions of Russia: Novosibirsk, Belgorod, Ulyanovsk and Ulyanovsk region, Penza, Cheboksary, St. Petersburg, Moscow, Davlekanovo.

The main idea of the distant game was that each school that participates at the "School League" makes one or several teams at the same day (for example, at April,12th, the day of the first man’s flight to space), the teams visit enterprises or institutions of their city associated with high technologies, their popularization and use in modern industries. After that, based on the collected impressions, the game participants make a newspaper of several pages (one team - one page), and all the newspapers are posted on a public Internet resource in the shortest possible time.

As a result, we got a view of the situation with regional science and technology in the all-Russian perspective: participants from Novosibirsk or St. Petersburg learned about the development of technology in Cheboksary or Ulyanovsk with the help of journalistic texts written in figurative children's language.

In a letter to the schools of the league, sent a month before the event, we proposed a mechanism that formed the basis for all the further distant games:

1. A school wishing to take part should appoint one of the teachers as a coordinator of the game who takes the main organizational tasks: negotiates with the places of visits, forms the teams of participants, appoints adult facilitators, receives the game task from the organizers, controls the delivery of the finished newspaper.
2. The places of visit must be specified at least one week before the game. These can be museums related to science, research institutes and laboratories, enterprises working with nanotechnology, IT companies, etc.
3. Once this is done, the coordinator registers the team: sends an e-mail to the organizers, informing the number of teams, lists of their participants and places of visit during the game. The day before the start of the game, the organizers send the coordinator a package of game assignments, which they will transfer to the participants.

The game can last one or two days. In the first case, business trips and newspaper issues occur on the same day. This is a classic option, which most closely corresponds to one of the main principles of the game, "here and now." In the second version, the texts are written the day after the visits to the correspondent editorial offices. The advantage of this option is that the game can be conducted after the lessons, the drawback is the inevitable decrease in the dynamics of the game.

On the day of the game, groups of schoolchildren across the country went on business trips to selected correspondent editorial offices, where they observed, recorded, photographed, interviewed employees and asked uncomfortable questions. In a word, they behaved like real journalists, who were gaining material and impressions, without which they could not make an interesting newspaper.

Upon their return to headquarters (in different cities), the teams processed materials, wrote articles and notes. Further, their texts were processed in different programs, from the simple Microsoft Word to the professional Adobe InDesign, turned into a newspaper page layout and went to print (and were distributed in the paper version to the game participants, host enterprises, local journalists, other interested persons). See the Annexes for examples of their work.

During the day, the coordinators were also required to forward the final papers to the organizers, so that the expert jury could select the best one and distribute the prizes. These newspaper pages were placed on a common Internet resource, which created a multi-page edition highlighting the theme of the game in various cities and villages of the country.

Since the distant "Journalist" was closely connected with the "RUSNANO School League" and its tasks, the content of the games was largely related to natural sciences, technology, education, business and entrepreneurship. During the organization of distance games, a unique combination of perspectives of view, focuses and small genres appeared, which we called the headings. Each time we asked participants to choose for their pages at least four headings out of the recommended ones. Presented here below, are the brief descriptions of some of the already played games and the headings developed for them.

## I. Remote game "Journalist. Gadgets that change the world"

Description

The gadget is a device that performs a limited range of tasks (specialized), characterized by small dimensions, connected via a standardized interface to more complex devices. As a rule, this is not any kind of device, but specifically an original, non-standard technical item.

Smartphones, phones, readers, players, tablets, navigators ... Continue the list yourself! Now it is impossible to imagine our life without these little things.

Our game will be built on the inductive principle: through the detail to the broader context. We suggest looking at this little everyday thing from different points of view:

* technological (often these are the most complicated technical devices, creation of which has taken long and careful work of the team of professionals);
* economic (international companies-giants in many respects build their business on the devices);
* social (the gadgets radically affect our way of life);
* cultural.

We will be interested in everything related to gadgets: where and how they are produced; where and how they are sold; who uses them and how?

In preparation for the game, we suggest finding places in your city that are related to gadgets in one way or another: sales offices, enterprises that produce them, laboratories in which they are developed and tested. The more interesting and non-standard places those locations will be, the more exciting will be the game for high school students.

Headings for the game featuring gadgets:

**"Photosymbol"**. A photo of what in your journalistic investigation was the most important, memorable, which most clearly reflects the theme of your material. It would be a good idea to add the photo with some written explanation of your choice.

**"Technology"**. A serious rubric for real engineers. How is this or that gadget constructed? What is its technological advantage over other devices performing a number of similar tasks? Find this out at your visiting site asking the professionals there or try to figure it out yourself.

**"Society of the Hi-Tech era"**. Interview the people around you or representatives of the place you go to: how do they think gadgets affect their lives? What has changed in life with the appearance of these little devices?

Or go from the opposite: what would happen to these people (or with you personally), if all our wonderful things suddenly stopped working? A lot of people would probably lose their jobs, someone's lives would surely have been broken, people would have lost many opportunities. In a word, would the end of the world come? Or is it not so scary? Can we ever give them up?

**"Infographics"**. Replacement of the usual and wonderful rubric "Statistics". Because, briefly, infographics are statistics in pictures. You come up with your own parameters of statistical data, based on the characteristics of your place.

**"Laboratory"**. A heading for geniuses of technical thought. Have you or your friends ever created any high-tech invention? Or maybe you thought about it, but could not, for various reasons, implement it in reality? Tell us about your experience or the experience of your friends.

**"This place could be your advertisement"**. Imagine the situation: you receive a real order for advertising the next gadget (for this rubric it's better not to invent, but to take the actual one). During the advertising campaign it is necessary:

1. Find out who will be the main target group of consumers (who needs this thing most of all).
2. Find out how to demonstrate the benefits of this gadget at its best.
3. Understand why people will be willing to give a lot of money for the purchase of this device.
4. Come up with ads!

****\
**"From the editor"**. Your personal opinion is a must, we are sorry! Emotional, imaginative, personal attitude to what the editor of the page has seen and felt during the research, and decided to convey to us as a separate line. It may not coincide with the opinion of the rest of the group.

**"We worked on the material"**. Dear participants of the game, please do not forget to put your names on the page. You are worthy of being mentioned in your own material.

## II. Remote game "Journalist. Innovative spaces of the city”

Description

What is the innovative space in the logic of our game?

Innovation is not just the emergence of something new. Any phenomenon is innovative only if it is implemented in reality and this has changed the reality qualitatively as the result. The simplest example is the invention, development and implementation of the zipper by the team of American developers in the early twentieth century. More complex is the idea of a supermarket as a large universal store with a parking lot, located mainly outside the city, where the whole family comes once a week to shop (appeared in the 1930s also in the US).

It is known that in order for something new to be born and introduced, an infrastructure that supports this process is needed. Therefore, innovative spaces in our logic are specially organized spaces that contribute to the emergence of new ideas and create the conditions for the implementation of these ideas in some real business or product.

What are the innovation spaces? First, it is such a widespread phenomenon today as techno-parks and business incubators. These are complex areas that combine several types of activities (laboratories, production, exhibition spaces and offices) for greater efficiency, and are focused on creating the final product. Most often they appear on the basis of old enterprises, due to which a new life arises in the old walls. Both business incubators and technology parks are specially designed in such a way that it is as easy as possible to create new knowledge and a new product in them.

Secondly, these are places that are not related to technology or production, like the lofts and creative spaces that are gaining popularity. These are art projects, which, as a rule, arise also in the walls of former factories and manufactures. There, under one roof, are exhibition and lecture halls, theatrical and cinema grounds, cafes, bookstores or libraries, hostels. That is all that is associated with the production of cultural products and the sphere of intellectual leisure. Experience shows that such projects often change the territory around him as well, from abandoned to becoming fashionable and visited, so the place creates a new point of attraction in the city.

Third, innovative spaces include unusual offices of companies in which special conditions for intellectual work are created. For example, offices of Yandex and Google provide an opportunity for employees to combine work and leisure in the same space.

An example of innovation can also serve as a combination of different activities in one place that changes qualitatively due to this development. Say, opening a cafe in a bookstore, where you can sit with a book and a cup of coffee. As far as the place is transformed, it becomes possible not only to buy but also to read and discuss books in cozy atmosphere. Thus, the bookstore turns into a kind of club, and the club immediately transforms life around itself, creates an intellectual environment. In St. Petersburg this idea was first realized by the Bukvoyed company and turned out to be really innovative; now more and more bookstores open coffee houses in their space, and the Bukvoyed itself holds numerous cultural programs at its cafes.

It is possible to give many examples, how an involved approach to the organization of space changes the atmosphere around it, as well as the environment, style of work and life of people. We are sure that it is possible to find that kind of places in almost any city.

We invite our young correspondents to visit such places and try to understand how they are arranged, whether or not they can be called innovative and what future expects these projects. Since such projects in our country are just starting to appear, we will be the first to describe and analyze the new trend from the point of view of the generation of future visitors (or, perhaps, creators) of such places. Perhaps, we will succeed in the common efforts to create a collective portrait of a new phenomenon that rises at the junction of creativity, business and living environment.

### Headings for the game about the innovative spaces of the city

**"Photosymbol"**. A photograph of what is most important in this place, without which the place certainly could not exist.

****\
**"Blogosphere"**. With the development of the era of the global information space, any significant event is necessarily reflected on the Internet. A real journalist simply can not pass by this priceless source of information. Find the most interesting statements on the web about your visit place. Possible options: LiveJournal, Twitter, Facebook, VK. You can also use the search for blogs from Yandex.

**"5 questions"**. Any newspaper cannot be a real newspaper without interviews. This headings features answers to five of your questions addressed to representatives of the innovation space.

****\
**"Behind the scenes"**. It happens that for various reasons people do not want to answer journalists' questions. Well, they have the right! Nevertheless, tell the readers what your questions to the staff of the place were for some reason left unanswered?

**"Photocomix"**. Experience has shown that a simple story in pictures can tell more than a long, detailed article. A small story in pictures (photos) about an unusual object (or an interesting person) that you've seen at your innovation location.

**"Economy of place"**. It's a serious heading. As we know, very little number of organizations can exist for a long time without funding. What is the economy of this place, at the expense of which it lives, what earns money for own existence? And which new ways of earning money could you see for them?

**"Innovative space in numbers"**. The size of the space in square meters, the height of ceilings, the number of computers per person, the average life expectancy of cacti in the office of the director, the percentage of red (or moustachioed) employees, the average number of coffee cups drunk during one brainstorm. In other words, any information in figures that you can only get. Remember that dry figures are often more eloquent than the most eminent facts.
