# 27. How to conduct a sociocultural study and design the space of the school with the help of the gam

The St.Petersburg Educational Center "Uchastie" organizes and holds the educational game "Journalist" for all comers since 2005. As a rule, those high school students who want to practice in the basics of journalism and social analytics and develop their communication skills are invited.

What are the most promising themes for the game? In the first ten games, the themes were united by a common project "Mirror for the city". In the role of journalists, the participants visited various institutions of several districts, such as shops, social services, museums, parks and squares, temples, a sports palace, a zoo, a market. They managed to get acquainted with the "kitchen" of seemingly ordinary things and routine social phenomena.

The routine environment suddenly revealed hidden nuances and images, incidents and unexpected perspectives worthy of a journalistic pen. The participants examined the infrastructure of the micro-district, explored the problem of graffiti on the facades of houses and fences, analyzed the problems of the social ecology of a city, the sealing construction and preservation of the architectural and historical heritage. There were, for instance, excellent stories from the Tyumen region with visits to key social sites of the rural area, as well as to the activities of the school archaeological and ethnographic expedition.

In the next ten games, more and more participants made trips to factories and various industrial enterprises, to institutes and scientific centres, trying to understand the structures of regular and high-tech production that were not obvious to the children. The topic of high technology was in focus at the Riga series of games as well.

Thus, what is ahead? What's new to expect from the game "Journalist"? It turns out that there is an undiscovered potential, which was originally laid in the methodology of the project. It is connected with the fact that journalism is only part of a more detailed study of the territory and people who inhabit it. This is a monitoring part of the current situation. A journalistic study of those reality cases allows us to open what the classic perspectives of the game reveal.

Aspects of perspectives can be varied and applied, for example, to study the spaces of the schools, finding the main idea of the place, its mystery, heroes, regulars, incomprehensible details.

It would seem, what's the difference of this kind of research view from a simple everyday description? The fact is that if you just look at the school walls and often empty recreations, then, perhaps, not so many interesting things can be seen. But if you look at all this in some special perspective, then an interesting picture of school life suddenly appears. New perspectives not only open what does the place already have but also hint at the potential of its development from the point of view of design-ergonomic and educational-informational utility. Empty, dull and functional-only walls at once would be seen as welcoming to make them nice and pleasant, proceeding from the potential that would be found in them.

After that there comes a need for the second step, to make a new design of the space or update an existing one, create a project aimed at the future of any previously explored space. For the first time, the design model was tested in 2013 at the school No. 583 of the Primorsky district of St. Petersburg.

The first part of the game was as usual: the participants at the stage of warm-up were trained in interviewing each other, formed journalistic brigades and, with the given perspective outlines in their hands, went to investigate the school space, school extra-classroom interiors. As a result, short oral presentations with photographs were made, where the above perspectives were revealed.

Then went the design part. At first, the organizers showed and explained, which patterns of modern design and educational decor the school interiors exist. Next to the participants was the customer, the head of the school Anna Cherednichenko. She formulated the terms of reference for the design, indicating the possibilities and limitations, based on the regulatory requirements for operation of the building, the safety rules and financial resources.

As a result, participants from journalists turned into designers. They worked in the same groups as when visiting places, but the inventory changed: big sheets of paper, markers, colored paper, scissors, glue. Of course, it was only about ideas of projects, not calculations, sketches and feasibility studies. However, the ideas are sources of further development of projects, their analysis, discussion, agreement and approval. Schoolchildren, their parents, the administration and teachers will participate in this necessarily.

At the end of the day, the projects were presented at a special stand exhibition. Each participant of the game could consider the schemes and drawings, ask questions to the colleague-designers. The ideas were assessed by the participants themselves. They voted with three sticky notes, attaching them to the appropriate stands. Audience sympathy became visible. Further, all the interested in the future of the school were involved into the expert evaluation, creating a public commission under the guidance of the director, so the commission carried out the technical development of the best initiatives.

What was extremely important, is that the director, as this had been promised before, allocated a grant to the best project, financial support for its implementation within the school.

Is not this the way to attract young people to local self-government? Is not this the way to mastering what is usually perceived as "not my business"? We are convinced that it is possible to work with any territory that claims development in the proposed way.

Tatiana Myasnikova, one of the organizers of the game "Journalist" in the Yalutorovsk district of the Tyumen region wrote to us back in 2009 about the above potential of the game:

> "We see that the prospect of the development of the project is far from simply repeating the scheme that has been worked out on all sorts of thematic lines. This technology is worthy not only of local application indicating that young people in the countryside are engaged in useful leisure activities. Although, perhaps, this is already a lot. However, the important social potential of this technology is that it can become one of the effective means of inter-industry integration, that is, building up links between local self-government bodies, agricultural industry, small business, culture, education, public associations, and individual residents.
>
> This technology can facilitate cooperation in analysis of current problems, design of ways to resolve them, implementation of relevant projects for development of local government and active participation of young people in it. Each village can become a center of such inter-industry integration. Each center can become a part of a network of interaction of settlements, for example, in the development of local self-government, democratization of governance and education.
>
> To support the initiative of young people means to develop the feeling of a knowledgeable and caring owners of their small homeland in the participants, the feeling of a free and responsible citizen who really influences the immediate everyday world. If municipal entities participate in the work of local centers of inter-industry integration, this will be a real step towards genuine democratization of local self-government”.

School, micro-district, municipal district, rural area, city ... What's next?
