# 28. What are the possible directions for development of the educational games "Journalist"?

The educational potential of the methods of the educational game "Journalist" is very diverse and wide. Although of course the transition from the opportunity to reality is conditioned not only by the effectiveness of the idea but also by the relevant external socio-cultural, economic and educational context. Based on many years of experience, the authors see the various contours of the future project.

One of the promising ideas in the sphere of interaction between education and business has been implemented by us in the form of the program "Educational community "Pro-Profi" ("Together with professionals").

The program is focused on the acquaintance of schoolchildren with specialists of various professions and joint participation with them in real responsible production activity in this professional sphere. The main idea of the program (and its main technological complexity) is that children master the main technological points of this production in the educational-game format (in the "here and now" mode) while participating in the real production process, becoming for the time colleagues of professionals.

It is clear that in an expanded form such a practice-oriented program can provide pragmatic sense not only to career guidance activity but also to school courses in economics and sociology, management and marketing, journalism and public relations.

Another touch to the near future is the use of the educational game in the program of active recreation of adolescents in health camps, tourist rides in the open air and educational expeditions. In particular, the phenomenological approach and the structure of the game can be adapted to existing pedagogical developments in environmental education and local history.

In school and additional education, the "Journalist's" operating time will be useful for productive cooperation and an increase of internal motivation of students in studying different subjects. As for natural science, the most appropriate to the cognitive abilities of the game are biology, geography and physics. «Gnoseodramatic» modeling of the worlds in these sciences is analogous to the definition of correspondent editorial offices in the classical versions of the game. In the field of science, with the help of the game, you can explore how the main scientific disciplines are represented in a particular region.

In addition to the educational potential of the educational game "Journalist", the game possesses social and design potentials as well. The game is capable of providing a useful interactive tool in diagnosing the resources of local government development. This can be very important that young people living in the given territory or arriving there as guests would be able to conduct such diagnostics. The ultimate goal of such a project is to create conditions for the formation of a networked self-government structure and improve quality of life by involving youth, officials and business in discussing a common future.
