# 24. What should the participants get as a result?

Answering this question, we proceed from our experience, when the main product the participants of the game produce is a newspaper or materials for an Internet site. In other words, in our practice, the aim has been primarily a written text. In this case, as we indicated above, the products of the game can be also a radio broadcast, a video story, etc.

We deliberately do not talk about literary requirements (this can be learned from Language teachers). For us, the key is the structure of the text. The memo for the participants gives advice on what should be taken care of first:

**Original title and subtitle**. A very important part of the material, the task of which is to draw the attention of the reader from the first letters. To select interesting headlines in the journalistic brigade, you can brainstorm.

**Lead before the text.** Lead is the beginning of the main text, where two or three sentences speak about the essence of the publication. From these few phrases, a person decides whether he will read the article further. Try to make them unusual. You can start with a quote, a remarkable fact or the most important information. The design of the lead should be different from the main material.

**Subheadings in the text.** The solid text of page looks monotonous and is perceived worse. It is better to break it into sub-headings, thus obtaining several independent parts. And do not forget about paragraphs, so the text will become clearer and easier for the reader.

**Quotes or intakes.** Such elements allow you to diversify the page visually and additionally emphasize those thoughts that you consider particularly significant. From the point of view of technology, it is more correct if all such components are transferred to the layout designer in a separate text file.

**Signatures and references.** Do not forget to sign your materials and indicate sources of information.

Below we present an ideal version of the order of work on page layout, as introduced by our partner, professional layout maker and publisher Grigory Ivashchenko:

> The organizers should develop a page layout of the publication in advance. It can be a framework, which is offered to all journalistic brigades for filling with their own materials. In this case, the design takes into account and studies all the possible types of graphic solution of the materials of this publication. The layout is prepared by editor-in-chief (the most experienced participant or the head of the game) together with the layout maker:
>
> 1. The editor determines the optimal amount of text on the pages, makes a list of headings, the type of headings and sub-headings.
> 2. The layout designer offers various options of fonts and design of all elements of the newspaper: heading (2 variants), subtitle (2 variants), sub-heading (2 variants), lead, text (several variants of fonts from discharged to dense, author's signature, tables, diagrams, signature under photograph or schemes, formats of advertising clichés). At the same time, there should not be many different designs, because then the style is lost.
> 3. The developed layout should be stored both on removable media (flash memory) and in the computer of the layout designer. It is necessary to save each new issue in a separate file.
> 4. Do not deviate from the layout, neither make new graphic elements or change the design frequently. If such a need arises, it is better to connect the changes with some event or holiday.

During the game, a layout for each page of the issue is better to be made separately. The main task at the stage of layout making and submission of the material is to attract and retain the attention of a reader at the time of reading the material. Journalists, editor and layout maker work together to achieve the aim. It is important that the editor and the reporter decide what can be placed in the material in form of a graphic object that attracts attention and complements the text with its content. That is why the bright reportage photo in the publication is valued on a par with the good journalistic text.
