# 25. How to prepare photos?

Good photos are not less important than text. Thanks to them, a page becomes brighter and has a better chance of success with the reader. The photo editor should think of the reportage photos taken during the event, as well as of the photo archive with the universal illustrations.

An accurate choice of a story for a photo is helped by preliminary planning and discussion of the forthcoming work at the blitz meetings of journalistic brigades. The composition of a picture depends on a proposed genre of planned materials (where a genre is a form of semantic processing and delivery of information). Thus, interviews and reports imply close-ups of the heroes or some emotional moments of the process. Surveys and articles require general illustrations; sometimes they come up with allegories or abstractions.

Working with photos, it is necessary to keep the sources (the original pictures) before the release of the number. In this case, to improve quality of the image and its subsequent editing, the best option is to use the RAW format. We must not forget that in newspapers, as a rule, they use black and white images. Therefore, all photos should be immediately converted to black and white.

A professional layout maker should also have a photo archive: some operative at hand on the computer and more extensive one on removable media. The archive should be divided into sections and subsections according to the subject matter of the publication and the genres used. Examples of sections are portraits, the front page, the University of Latvia, the railway station. Today, a lot of popularity gain photobanks, where so-called stock photos can be purchased by subscription.

In real life, the layout designer must necessarily coordinate with other specialists involved in the requirements for all possible graphic elements on the pages of the publication. These requirements must be written down and kept near a working computer, and also informed to all interested parties, including advertising customers or freelancers.

In our game, this means that if you invite a professional layout maker to operate at the game (instead of making the pages by forces of game participants themselves), you should make a special folder in the computer where all the photos will be stored in sections (with respect to the teams and correspondent editorial offices). From these folders, the editor of a particular page should select the illustrations and then send them back to the layout maker for final processing and placement in the layout. If a professional layout maker is not invited, a journalist team appoints a person responsible for the layout.

Of course, it is great to use own photos of the participants made during the visit rather than the photos from the photobanks or the open Internet. But in all cases, young journalists should be informed about copyright on photographs from the Internet, the importance of indicating the authors, and the need to ask permission to shoot on the spot.
