# 16. How can you help the participants to put interesting and meaningful questions?

## Perspectives

Subject perspectives of the research is a point of view, a definite mode of thought and perception suggested to the participants as a way to look at the action at the site, where the game takes place. In the context of social hermeneutics it is an attempt to defamiliarize routine which is to look at the routine as at something strange and unordinary, or, according to writer Victor Shklovsky, "to force the thing out of automatism of the perception". Just that strangeness and amazement cause the contradiction, that becomes the starting point of the knowledge.

You can see below some examples of perspectives we use in the themed game "Mirror for the District" as typical variants of perspectives that can be used in a game of any type:

* Historical background of the place&#x20;
* The most important object of the place&#x20;
* Historical style of the place
* The enigma of the place
* Genius Loci (the hero of the place)
* Experiences of the place
* Emotions of the place
* Benefit of the place
* All-time high of the place
* Stupidity of the place
* Halidom of the place
* Personages (habitues) of the place
* Inscription of the place
* Chatting of the place
* CdV of the place
* Ruins (demolitions) of the place
* Assumed future of the place &#x20;

Certainly, you should not wait and demand the participants to follow these perspectives literally. However, during the hot-seat meetings of the editor staffs it's important that the facilitators call the kids' attention to the modes of perception. It is worth noting that the training using this technique of social exploration and interviewing can be held not only during educational game "Journalist" but also as a self-sufficient event, because it is only one of the elements of the game, albeit a key one.

The most free variant of the game is given above. In organization of your game you can move the focus on more narrow phenomenologic conditions. Below you can see several suggestions:

1. It is not necessary to prepare materials about the places you will visit in advance.
2. We strongly urge the organization representatives not to become guides in the places we visit, decisively not to tell the students anything all along but only to answer their questions. No questions — no information.
3. After the returni to the headquarter each journalist, as a rule, writes his/her own text and then represents it at the editorial meeting. After that the joint text of a page will be formed from the best perspectives (texts) of all participants.&#x20;
4. Layout setting can be made by upperclassmen and not by adult specialists.

Listed above exploration perspectives are to be treated as a prompt and additional focus instrument, but not as a dogma. The most important is to organize the work under a shortage of information; this principle you should emphasize artificially. Apparently, we enclose in brackets "official information" and grown up narrative, leaving the participants with silent things and people that are on the site. Students are to work with all this now and here, basing only on their own personal meaning, and then are to express it in a text. Then they can share their impressions in a form of verbal presentation and the most interesting presentations may be printed. Censorship should not be professional or ideological but only ethic (for example, you can start a discussion whether they should not mince their words, and in which cases).

## Trainings

Main types of journalist skills mini-trainings in the basic version of the game are the following:

1. tune-up in a form of mutual interviewing of the participants (beginning of a game day);
2. different role games (second half of a game day);
3. press-conference (second half of a game day).&#x20;

In its turn, "Championship" has even more possibilities for such trainings. Essentially, trainings are built in different creative contests.

Other trainings built in the structure of game "Journalist" are not devoted to drilling of some special skills (for example, analytical or legal), but develop creative-research potential, necessary for future specialist in every sphere. So we focus on communicative and assertiveness training. From copious literature devoted to these aspects of training we choose a fragment from well-known book by Kjell Rudestam "Experiential Groups in Theory and Practice":

> «Behavior rehearsal is the primary vehicle for skill training in the assertiveness group. The technique consists of role-playing a situation that has created or can be anticipated to create some difficulties for the group member. Other group members and the leader participate by coaching and playing the roles of significant others in the interaction. In a structured group the leader might begin by introducing situations that are commonplace and likely to be troublesome for most nonassertive participants. Typical exercises draw upon both request and refusal responses. Examples include dealing assertively with salespersons, waiters, and garage mechanics, handling criticism and anger, and various conversational skills such as being attentive to information offered by others, giving and receiving compliments, self-disclosure, changing topics, breaking into or terminating conversations, and dealing with silences.
>
> In the early stages of the group, situations are presented that constitute only low-level threats for the participants. One way to begin a large group, for example, is to have members make eye contact with one another introduce themselves, and then state what they liked about the other person’s introduction. As the group progresses, more challenging behavior rehearsals are introduced. Over time, most assertiveness-training groups become less structured, so that participants supply their own unique difficulties from the real world to role-play within the group. The role-playing, of course, somewhat resembles the content of a psychodrama session and, as such, bears the mark of Moreno’s work. The idea is not, however, to relive an emotionally charged experience for catharsis or emotional discharge. The scenes deal exclusively with assertiveness issues and building an adaptive behavioral repertoire.»

Certainly, during the game any training, including the communicative skills training, is associated with journalism anyway. Case in point is an interviewing tune-up, which took place in the game "Mirror of the City" in Riga. On that day the participants got an opportunity to make a journey over state and community organizations of one of Riga municipal districts and to make a true-life newspaper about social and educational policy in the city based on gathered journalist materials.

Before the start of the game, as a tune-up, organizers gave each of the participants a card containing one of following questions:

1. What do you think, who will take care of you in your old age?
2. If you had much (very much) money, who would you help? In what projects would you invest your capital?
3. Does anyone who you know (or your relative) avail of state support? What is the subject of this need?
4. Are you ready to become a volunteer and to help for nothing - as an example - to the disabled who live in a care home? And if this work was paid well?
5. Have you experienced any cases when you yourself helped someone who had got into a hardship?
6. Have anyone ever requested your help? Who was that person? What was your help needed for?

Then each participant interrogated the colleagues who were in the auditorium and answered their questions in turn. Such an interrogation lasted for about twenty minutes (everyone asked what he/she had managed). Then upperclassmen having got the same cards gathered together and in the groups they summarized the interrogation, discovered general trends and the most strange answers, prepared small summarizing reports to share their conclusions with the audience.

The role game on the topic "Journalist in the unusual circumstances" can become one more example of a training, built in a creative contest. The primary targets here include acquaintanceship of the teams, rehearsal for assertive behavior, development of journalist's creative wits, drill of internal team cooperation.

The format of the game is a TV channel. Each team presents an editorial staff of some themed TV show, and journalists found themselves in special (fairytale) circumstances defined by the moderators. The following criteria for the participants were established:

* Correspondence of the "TV show" theme with the theme of circumstances defined
* Genre variety
* Showmanship, presentation expressiveness
* Correspondence with the original literature text in facts and meanings

As a game task the participants could pull out one of the next tasks:

* TV show in the sort of «Plant life» themed on circumstances and action of Russian fairy tale «The Turnip»
* TV show in the sort of «I challenge you to a duel!» themed on circumstances and action of Aesop's fable «The Wolf and the Lamb»
* TV show in the sort of «The housing problem» themed on circumstances and action of Russian fairy tale «Three Bears»
* TV show in the sort of «Looking for adventures» themed on circumstances and action of part of the poem «On Seashore Far»
* TV show in the sort of «The honest detective» ("The honest confession") themed on circumstances and action of fairy tale «Little Red Riding-Hood»
* TV show in the sort of «Special correspondent» («Profession is reporter») themed on circumstances and action of tale «Buzzy-Wuzzy – Buzy Fly»
* TV show in the sort of «Dialogue of the governor with the city» themed on circumstances and action of Chukovsky's poem «The Phone»
* TV show in the sort of «Highway Patrol» themed on circumstances and action of Russian fairy tale «The Rolling Roll»

Each of the tasks was accomplished by corresponding literature material. After having prepared for 30-40 minutes teams appeared on the stage with their performances, and we had got a humorous practice in mythological journalism (as it often really is).

## Short format genres

As a prompt for how they can present the information they've got in a literary form we used to give the participants handouts with description of some short format journalistic genres.

Why is it important? Different participants have different knowledge about basics of journalist work. At the same time, it's impossible for the organizers to fill the gaps in journalist knowledge thoroughly. Indeed, it falls outside of semantic concept of the game, so we limit ourselves to prompts.

****\
**Item** – all facts are joined by a theme and are recorded simultaneously. The essence is concentrated in the first two-three phrases.

**Reportage** – quick information processing and event analysis. The event is described sequentially but the description can break off the real time stream. Effect of reader's being at the place of the event is achieved. A reporter can cite records of other participants and witnesses of the event, but it will be used only as a quotation in the text, and the main role should belong to the author.

**Interview** – to a greater or lesser degree the interviewee's point of view is presented. Overtly or covertly the correspondent's position also appears. Forms of interview: conversation, dialog, monologue, polylogue, questionnaire, express-interview, micro-interview.

**Report** – the fullest telling about a concrete event the author observed personally. Usually the narration is limited by spatial-temporal boundaries, covering the described event. The genre involves detailed elaboration of the event, representation of details according to the words and replies of protagonists, and active demonstration of the personal position of the author.

**News item**– exploration and description of a concrete social situation, system of facts, joined by well-seen cause-and-effect relationship or by unities of time, place, hero, and problem. Fact is a base of the text and a cause for an interpretation. Given: The authors discourse stemmed from generalization of described facts. Formula: thesis – argumentation – demonstration – conclusion.

**Comment** - prompt response to an event that doesn't make a claim for the exhaustiveness of the analysis. Centered on: item or fact posted earlier. Important: not quickness in the message transmission but an impression and a point of view at the event; flexibility in problem discussion and commitment to emotional response of the audience.

**In article** the narration depends on magnitude of facts and their variety. The sources can be very different. The text of article is built on a complex of states, speculations, judgments and deductions, in other words on a system of arguments, leaning on displaying of cause-and-effect relationship between separate facts. A conceptual construct must be developed.

**Journalistic review** – mix of news item, article and comment. Various data are used that enable making the narration polythematic.

**Letter** – personally-colored point of view to a problem. Formula: author – acute problem – receiver. Confidential conversational style.
