# 18. Who are the facilitators and what should they do?

It's important to see about those who will accompany groups in their travel to the news offices in advance. The process of the game depends heavily on their activity. Facilitators' concern is not only to accompany kids in the unfamiliar places. It is crucially important for them to provide unobtrusive support for the participants at all stages of the game:

1. at the first editorial informational meeting, yet before the departure, to encourage getting to know the ready news materials and the chief editor choice;
2. during the travel not only to ensure safety, but also to call the kids' attention to amazing and irregular things, to encourage them to ask questions as well as to explain to the representatives of  receiving organizations that a half-an-hour lecture about the organization's history can only hinder the game;
3. while returning to the headquarters to help the kids to remember the most vivid ideas and impressions that appeared during the work and that they would like to tell about;
4. if necessary - to take a role of a consultor, to remind of time constraints.

Obviously, the scope of facilitators depends on the concrete group of participants. The main principle of the work of the facilitators is that they should prompt if and only if the kids decisively have forgotten about something. They ought not to advance kids initiative but maintain a pause; not to preserve from errors but gently warn; not to instruct but empower.

In ideal, facilitation skill - unobtrusive control over the situation together with the participants - is to be trained. But it works well when you can construct the permanent facilitators' team.

Many times we engaged students who were ready to work as volunteers to get some pedagogical or journalist practice, or invited educators in the additional education format. Sometimes for the role of the facilitators, we invited our particular friends who were interested to take part in a new and uncommon "side show". Also, we have an experience of working with full-aged upperclassmen as facilitators.

While talking to potential facilitators it is important to define their functions, tell about the core of the subject (for further information please refer to [Question No 4](../origins-and-grounds/4.-what-principles-is-the-journalist-game-built-on.md)), specify time and spatial limits (walking and bus routes). It is also useful to prepare for the facilitators a common participant package, detailed itinerary list with contact information, a pen and a notebook (for they could fix their own impressions).
