# 20. Who can be invited as a guest speaker and why?

When the participants have done the main part of the work and gather in the assembly hall to share their impressions with each other, an outside guest is usually invited. It will be better if he comes before the presentations of the teams, gets acquainted with the essence of the game and the first ready-made materials, listens to the stories of the game participants. As far as the main part of the game is over, an improvised press conference is held.

It is important that an invited person would be sufficiently known, active and likes communication. This can be:

* a businessman working in a field close to the topic of the game;
* a head or specialist in public relations of one of the partner organizations;
* a journalist who knows the subtleties of the profession;
* a representative of the authorities (of any level), competent in matters related to the theme of the game or working with young people in general;&#x20;
* an employee of the education sector;
* just an adult person who is interesting and enjoying the authority among the participants.

Such a meeting at the end of a busy game day is very important. The participants get the opportunity to feel that the work they have done is of interest to others. In addition, they can ask questions accumulated during the day and get competent answers. The team brings a variety of impressions from the places of visiting and talking about them to knowledgeable adults, the participants can once again comprehend the new knowledge.

As a rule, the guest talks a little about himself, indicates areas that he is ready to discuss, and then the game participants ask questions. A facilitator is needed who directs the press conference and, if the teenagers are embarrassed or tired (this happens), helps them to tune. The challenge is to organize communication on an equal footing, not to let go to a simple summing up or evaluation of the results of the game. Each team can jointly prepare several questions that will help start a dialogue, because for many of the game participants this makes the first experience of such communication.

We must not forget that a significant guest can help organizers to popularize the game and attract new partners. The invited specialist, in turn, will have the opportunity to hear the opinion of teenagers who already look at him and his work quite differently, through the eyes of journalists who understand much more than before the game.
