# 21. How can you make an analysis of the accomplished game?

To analyze the content and the form of game process organizers are to use the resulting profile and to get the answers of the participants about their own game experience. (See the profile example in [Question No 30](../30.-where-can-the-example-be-viewed.md)) We abandoned more effective psychological techniques, including the projective ones, because at the end of game day the participants are usually tired and we have no possibility to expand time. In theory, you can use more advanced forms of self-report, if you can perform them in 30 minutes after materials have been sent to typography, or in case of the two-days game.

Let's elaborate the results of resulting profiles analysis for 5 years. First, it turned up that phenomenal approach and subject perspectives effectively help participants to open new social, professional and personal edges. Second, the efficacy of the main principles of game organization proved out. We were especially glad to receive in several years a letter from the participant, who had entered the journalist department: "That experience helped me very much to come into being a little professional. I'll be glad to be handy somehow".

Here are some prominent participant reviews:

> We half-opened undercover curtain of obvious things.
>
> There were many interesting acquaintances, atmosphere of adventure.
>
> Now I know the intrinsic of newspaper production.
>
> I have learned how to take an interview and edit materials.
>
> I've got a possibility to feel myself in the professional environment, take part in a press-conference, create a newspaper - it all was interesting and new.
>
> I believe that after this game many participants will in future practice in the journalist sphere.
>
> I've learned to be more direct in communication with other people, to see some details not seen at first glance.
>
> The experience of talking to people at the street, visiting of some unusual places was very valuable.
>
> Collaboration with my age mates, who are also interested in journalism was very important.
>
> It was very interesting to work in a team, communicate with news offices staff, write articles within short timeframes.
>
> The skill of working in a team with other people, gathering all information into integrated whole in a short time, expressing the ideas in desired format.
>
> I've learned many new things today. After the game I treat the people of other nationality even better.
>
> Team-work, new knowledge, actual theme, new viewpoint at the issue of tolerance.
>
> I have known new types of people, have learned to communicate with them.
>
> This game was interesting as we worked in different journalistic genres and in different situations. I think, many of us have understood which genre is akin to them.
>
> Velocity, irregularity, visible feedback, demonstration of own gifts in different situations.

While reading comments in the profiles, one can discover such psychological aspects as cognition interest satisfaction, confidence building, understanding of own communicative and journalist skills development, some stage of professional identity, getting of experience of another performance rhythm. However, the reviews can hardly reflect the main - creative atmosphere, in which everyone could feel personal liberty and a sense of responsibility in the situation of game uncertainty.
