# 10. How to choose places where to invite schoolchildren?

The most exciting thing after choosing a topic of the game is to find places to visit (the "correspondent editorial offices") for the participants of the game. There are several criteria for selection of those.

_First,_ the locations must be sufficiently original, unusual and in some ways unfamiliar (for example, church parishes of various denominations or an expensive restaurant in the form of an old frigate).

_Second,_ the locations may seem familiar, but at the same time still hint at something unfamiliar, backstage to us, the riddles of their social cuisine. For example, few people visit stadiums with an ice arena, but even less are familiar with the process of their servicing.

_Third,_ the locations should be accessible to participants at institutional terms. For example, it is quite difficult to organize a visit to a juvenile colony, and moreover, the possibility of free research of such a place is extremely limited.

_Fourth,_ the structural and functional diversity of the locations is necessary within the framework of the chosen topic. The selection is not necessary to be limited by state institutions only or by enterprises of one branch only.

_Fifth,_ it is desirable that young journalists at the places of visits (even accidentally) can meet not only with representatives of the administration but also ordinary employees and clients. For example, a visit to the department of the Migration Service would be well complemented by a visit to the local market where the "customers" of this supervisory agency can be met.

_Sixth,_ given the time limit and the algorithm of the game, you should choose the places of visit so that they are relatively close to each other and from the headquarters of the game (for more details, see [Question No 14](14.-how-can-you-organize-the-migration-of-students-groups-during-the-game.md) on the movement of groups of schoolchildren during the event).

At the preparatory stage, we try to find out about the future correspondent editorial offices as much as possible: contact the representatives of organizations, look for information about them on the Internet, hold meetings, prepare official letters with the request to receive participants (sample applications - see [Question No 30](../30.-where-can-the-example-be-viewed.md)). It is fundamentally important, that organizers would visit the site at least once before the game, personally assessing the information and semantic potential of the intended location.

Of course, this is not always possible. Sometimes one has to be content with more or less reasonable assumptions and assurances expressed by employees of the company or institution. There is a risk, but you have to take risks to choose the right option. Failures happen during the game itself, but participants must take them as professional difficulties. It happens even that you have to visit the site without a final agreement or, being in place on time, to see a closed door in front of you, which indicates the forgetfulness of the responsible persons.

Even in the case when you choose the "Business Trip" format, the organizers should visit the site (albeit quite remote), and only then, based on their own impressions, to start drawing up the perspectives of work there, which will help the participants to collect information on the ground. The outline of the phenomenological focus for the game developed by the organizers and given to the game participants in the form of a memo for a journalist depends essentially on the organizers' direct sense of the location chosen.
