# 11. How to find a partner organization (and a location) for the game?

Choosing partners for the game is an important and difficult task of the preparatory stage. We need to be prepared for the fact that this will require considerable effort from the organizers, especially at the first time. Not all organizations are open to cooperation in the field of education; this is an additional work for them, the value of which has yet to be assessed by them, which can be achieved from your presentation.

In case if you want to hold the game in public places (parks, shops, museums, exhibitions, sport complexes, theatres and concert halls) the task looks easier. Usually, it is enough to inform representatives of the location about the date and time of the game participants' visit. As a rule, such organizations are accustomed to a large number of visitors, and their staff can help guests to navigate on the spot and find out more information. Contact information and list of contact persons are easy to find on the Internet, the contact persons usually are the management of the department for public relations, marketing department, department of educational programs or secretaries.

In the case of visiting organizations outside the education sphere and public services, the reconciliation process can be quite time-consuming and not always successful. Experience shows that regardless of the place (country) of the game, it is important to establish personal contact with the future partner organization. Try to talk with your friends engaged in the chosen field, tell about the future of the event to colleagues, possible teenage participants and their parents. Most likely, it will help to find interested adults who can come to the agreement with the right organization.

In any case it will be necessary:

* to find contact information of an organization you would like to focus on and its employees who might be interested in cooperation;
* to compile and send a letter describing the project, the planned time and date of the visit, the number of participants and a list of organizations that are funding and/or already participating in the project (see [Question No 30](../30.-where-can-the-example-be-viewed.md));
* in a few days after the letter to call and offer to meet in person and discuss the details of future cooperation. The organizers themselves also need to get to know the people and the place of the game as good as possible, without this it is difficult to adjust participants to the results and create long-term contacts;&#x20;
* to try on the spot to explain the idea and purpose of the visit of high school students. It is important to find an employee who would meet the participants, but would not be a "guide" but is ready to answer the most unexpected questions of adolescents and acquaint them safely with the place and other colleagues. It is equally important to discuss the procedure of the visit itself (for example, permits may be needed);
* to try to negotiate with the organization about some memorable souvenirs for the participants. Usually, these are pens, notebooks, calendars and other promotional items;
* just before the day of the game to make sure that the agreement to visit is still valid.

It is important that cooperation be useful for each party. Try to convey to the organization not only the value of the socially responsible position and educational work with adolescents but also think about the benefits of participation in the game that can be obtained by the organization. This can be a marketing effect, influence on carrier choice, establishing links with other partner-participants. The work on finding partners is sure to help organizers in their next projects.
