# 12. Where can I find funding?

The educational game "Journalist" can be a tool for implementing different goals that can be found in the focus of grant programs of various foundations, public and commercial organizations. For example:

* public integration in the broadest sense, including cooperation of adolescents from different social, ethnic and age groups, the interaction of adolescents with adults and the involvement of disadvantaged or isolated social groups in an active social life;
* vocational guidance and education;
* international cooperation and integration, getting acquainted with the world.&#x20;

Funds for such purposes are spent by a broad range of different organizations that usually hold project competitions. Our experience shows that the educational game "Journalist" is quite competitive in the next selections:

* At the level of the state and local governments, there are usually funds for social or public integration. They hold regular project competitions, financing them in whole or in part. This is usually done by the Ministries of Culture, Education, Welfare or Health. At the level of local governments, similar departments also operate in this area. Usually, public non-governmental organizations or educational organizations that are active in a specific territory and for its benefit may participate in the competitions;&#x20;
* At the international level, the funds of large organizations also finance projects in the above areas. For example, Norden, Nordplus or Erasmus+ in Europe;
* Financing from commercial organizations can be found if the emphasis of the game is made on career choice and/or public relations. The media may be interested in the journalistic component of the game. The difficulty is that usually large international companies are engaged in financing such projects on a regular basis, but with the rest, it is necessary to find common ground and common interests. But this source of funding exists in actual reality; the main thing is to correctly set goals that can attract business. There are also organizations that are constantly engaged in the search for employees, their training for commercial structures. For them the game can be of interest as one of the forms of work in this field;&#x20;
* Large organizations in the field of education, such as schools and universities, can also partially or fully finance the game from the funds for basic or additional educational activities;
* The source of funding can be private funds of the parents of participants; this depends on the entrepreneurial spirit and level of training of the organizers. Currently, there is a growing demand for quality educational services, one of which can be the game "Journalist".&#x20;

Conducting the educational game "Journalist" does not require much effort, especially if carried out within the boundaries of a small geographical area. But before you look for sources of funding, you must have a clear image about the amount of funds and formulate goals so that they coincide with the goals of possible sponsors.

The main items of expenses necessary to be considered by organizers:

* transport to places of visit and, possibly, to the place of the game;
* meals for participants: several coffee breaks and lunch;
* renting of premises and equipment, including computers, a projector and a printer;
* expenses for printing and stationery;
* payment for work of the organizers and facilitators.

Most of these resources can be available to the organizers or provided by partners free of charge.
