# 14. How can you organize the migration of students' groups during the game?

Different types of the games have their own principles in the organization of journalist's teams' movement. In case of "Mirror for the District" the most significant thing is to develop bus and walking routes to the news offices situated at more or less equal distances from the headquarter. Thus, in case of a 1-day game, it is desirable that some places to visit were in a distance of 15-20 minutes of walking from the headquarter while the others demanded the same time to be reached by bus.

Those time parameters for the routes are important primarily for the games in which the place of general assembly is inside the district being researched by the journalists or in several blocks from it. Even in this case, it can take more time if we take in account traffic jams or unexpected road situations.

The situation is rather different when the participants are to go to news offices placed in a remote area. Such a trip may take up to an hour and a half. Beside this, it's possible that they need a special bus. It happens also that press conference or meeting with a specialist takes place outside the space of the game. Such activities should not be held too far, and it would be better to invite experts to your own territory.

In "Championship" a competitive aspect supported with various contests is known to prevail. Consequently, the game logic gets additional components, which affects the routes of the participants. "Championship" demands even more flexibility in information on-site accumulation and processing. For example, in one of the games we divided the urban district that surrounded the headquarter of the game into eight notional squares and marked them on the maps as targets to visit for journalist teams. As a result, every editorial team could arrive to its square in 5 minutes and begin the social analytic research of problem of graffiti on the house walls.

From the perspective of logistics, the "Business trip" format is probably the simplest. All participants and organizers go to a news office using the tested way, and at the place (for example, at the enterprise territory) they move, as a rule, along the route confirmed with the organization in advance.
