# 5. How do we play the game?

On the day of the game, for example at 10 o'clock in the morning, 40-50 high school students from different schools come to the "game headquarters" (this can be a school or another location on the basis of which the game is played). At the very beginning, the students have an acquaintance session, warm-up, training of journalistic skills and an introduction to the topic of today's game. This takes about an hour.

After that, the instruction is given with an explanation of the rules of the work, the participants are split into editorial offices or “correspondent offices” (representative offices of the general editorial office in those places, spaces, organizations that the participants of the game will explore). One editorial office unites approximately 4-7 participants, and each team receives an editorial task, to investigate a particular place or organization. All the participants receive information materials on the topic of the game, some information on the specific “correspondent office” (including address and phone number), as well as a special cheat sheet for a journalist (see [question No 30](../30.-where-can-the-example-be-viewed.md)).

Editorial offices choose editors and hold a briefing on the distribution of journalistic work. After that, all the groups are sent to their place of work: on a rented bus, public transport or by foot. Each team is accompanied by an adult.

On-site, the participants communicate with an employee or a specialist who meets them, explore the space, ask questions to people. In a word, they behave politely, but boldly and at ease, like real journalists. Their task is to collect as much diverse information and impressions as possible.

Returning to headquarters in a few hours, the editorial groups discuss what they saw, share draft materials and determine who will do what. After that, they can already go to the computer class to type texts, process video and photos. But do not forget about dinner!

The participants will always be short of time. By 4 p.m, for example, all the texts should be typed, the elements of the general newspaper pages or the layout of the publication on the Internet (depending on the format of the game) thought through. At this stage, students can be assisted by an invited expert.

When the bulk of the work is done, only a few people from each team remain in the computer class to complete the material. The rest at this moment either communicate at a press conference with the guests-professionals, or are busy preparing a presentation of their work, or participate in a parallel event related to the theme of the game.

By six o'clock at the evening, all the publications are usually ready. If the task of the game is to publish one newspaper as a joint result of work of several groups, then at that point the sections of different editorial offices have already been sewn and handed over to the participants. As the part of the final seminar, the editor-in-chief and other specialists necessarily discuss with the students the merits and demerits of the texts and pages created. Each participant receives a personal certificate, and the schools receive gratitude for the level of training of the students and help in the organization.

The cycle of a game ends the next day with sending the resulting materials to the enterprises and institutions that the teenagers had visited.

The question of lunch at the game day is worth being paid more attention here. As you know, a hungry journalist is an evil journalist, and in our case, he is also tired after a trip to the correspondent office. It is desirable that the headquarters of the game has a dining room, where the children can eat deliciously and inexpensively. If this is not possible, then you should find a cafe or a canteen nearby. The food conditions should be indicated already in the invitations sent to future participants.

It is also very important to agree with real media that they will publish the students' texts. This will give students a feeling that everything is real in the "game", their opinion will be delivered to a wide audience and the students will have to bear their own responsibility for their words. It is necessary to strive for the materials of the adolescents to be printed with minimal corrections in content (grammar and punctuation do not count).

In our experience there were very different options for cooperation with real media:

* a city newspaper published by the organizers of the game, which was sold in kiosks and in which the materials of the game came out as an appendix;
* a city youth newspaper, with which we agreed that it would give one page to the "Journalist" game;
* a socio-political journal that prepared a large review of the texts of all editorial groups and published most of the materials prepared by the students;
* radio programs, where  participants could share their impressions on the air;
* Internet publications.
