# 8. How to invite participants to the game?

The first step is to compose an invitation (see [Question No 30](../30.-where-can-the-example-be-viewed.md)). A few weeks before the game begins, the invitation should be sent to e-mail addresses of schools in the city or region. If a database of participants has already been created, then the letter should be sent to their personal addresses. Over time, we have formed a list of schools with which we previously worked, and we send them the invitations in the first place. Soon the phrase "Please find an invitation to the educational game "Journalist" attached to the letter” became already familiar and easy.

As our experience shows, about 5 days before the deadline for the submission of applications specified in the invitation, the applications begin to arrive at the headquarters. The most recent of these organizers obtain immediately before the game itself. The latter situation is not the most convenient, as far as it is important to know in advance about the number, age and gender of the participants in order to make journalistic brigades as equal in their forces as possible.

On the basis of the registration list, we prepare badges and approve the composition of the teams with respect to the correspondent editorial offices (if no distribution during the warm-up session is supposed). Formation of editorial offices often continues on the day of the game, since there are always people who came unexpectedly, as well as those who were expected but did not come. However, do not be frightened of the dynamics, adjustments and clarifications - these are an inevitable part of any living event.
