# 9. What kind of themes can be taken for the game?

The chosen theme meaningfully saturates and to some extent organizationally transforms the logic of the educational game "Journalist". Currently, we have worked out in details the next four types of thematic games:

1. "Journalist. Mirror for the region. " The game players travel to various places and organizations located in one region (city, district).
2. "Journalist. Championship". Team championship on the educational game "Journalist" with the disclosure of any topic, but not too difficult one.
3. "Journalist. The business trip". In particular, "The business trip to the offset paper factory", "The business trip to the Kirov plant", "The business trip to the North-West Timber Company" were held in St. Petersburg.
4. "Journalist. Actual topic". The games of this category that had already taken place are "Tolerant Petersburg", "Forgotten monuments of Petersburg", "Business of modern technologies", "Innovative spaces of the city", "New life of old plants", "Kronstadt cultural and uncultured”.

Of course, these and other topics can get further development. Specific focuses and details are largely determined by the social, cultural and economic resources of the region where the game is played. The idea of the specific features of these resources (creative, personnel, institutional) arises from the organizers themselves and allows you to choose one or another format, sometimes intuitively.

A very important role is therewith played by purely research interest to look more closely at any socio-cultural object. In other words, a possible theme for the game might often be seen and thus found through lenses of a phenomenological desire to see the unusual in the ordinary and familiar. This is simultaneously a journalistic, and psycho-pedagogical, and socio-philosophical position.
